Voting documentation (#986)
Concordium/concordium.github.io: source/mainnet/net/voting/guardians.rst

.. _guardians:
.. include:: ../../variables.rst

=========
Guardians
=========

The guardian (via the guardian application) participates in two flows: the setup flow before the election and the decryption flow at the end of the election.

> The setup flow ensures that the election tallying is decentralized. A number of guardians as defined by the election parameters in the smart contract register their public keys in the smart contract to say that they will tally election votes. After the election closes, the guardians decrypt their share of the votes and send the decrypted tally back to the smart contract. In this way, no one party tallies the votes for the election, ensuring a fair election.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The setup flow ensures that the election tallying is decentralized. A number of guardians as defined by the election parameters in the smart contract register their public keys in the smart contract to say that they will tally election votes. After the election closes, the guardians decrypt their share of the votes and send the decrypted tally back to the smart contract. In this way, no one party tallies the votes for the election, ensuring privacy of the votes. Correctness of the result follows from the zero-knowledge proofs generated by the guardians to prove that they performed all steps correctly.
```

.. _guardians:
.. include:: ../../variables.rst

=========
Guardians
=========

The :term:`guardian` (via the guardian application) participates in all three phases of the election: the :term:`setup phase` before the election, they may cast votes during the :term:`election phase`, and the :term:`tally phase` at the end of the election.

The setup phase ensures that the election tallying is decentralized. A number of guardians as defined by the election parameters in the smart contract register their public keys in the smart contract to say that they will :term:`tally` election votes. After the election closes, the guardians :term:`decrypt their share of the votes<decryption share>` and send the decrypted tally back to the smart contract. In this way, no one party tallies the votes for the election, ensuring privacy of the votes. Correctness of the result follows from the zero-knowledge proofs generated by the guardians to prove that they performed all steps correctly.

.. note::

>     Guardians cannot use the Desktop wallet or |mw-gen1| because these wallets cannot export account keys.

Reviewer 2: CryptoX cannot export account keys either, can it? Or am I just blind when looking through the app? 😄

The final step creates a proof that can be checked by others to determine that the election has been fair.

#. Click **Generate decryption proof**.

    .. image:: ../images/voting/guardian-generate-decryption-proof.png
        :alt: generate decryption proof dialog
        :width: 50%

#. Click **Send proof registration**.

    .. image:: ../images/voting/guardian-register-decryption-proof.png
        :alt: generate decryption proof dialog
        :width: 50%

Once you have registered your decryption proof you must wait until the other guardians have done the same.

.. image:: ../images/voting/guardian-await-decryption-proof.png
    :alt: dialog shown when awaiting other guardians
    :width: 50%

After all guardians have registered decryption proofs, the decryption is shown as complete.

.. image:: ../images/voting/guardian-decryption-complete.png
    :alt: dialog shown when awaiting other guardians
    :width: 50%

Uninstall the app
=================

Once the election is final, guardians should uninstall the app. The instructions below describe how to uninstall the app for each platform.

Windows
-------

Uninstall the app as you uninstall all apps on Microsoft.

> Delete the file XXXX to remove all guardian keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delete the folder ``%appdata%\com.concordium.guardian.<network>.<contract-index>.<contract-subindex>`` to remove all guardian keys.
```

@mh-concordium can you verify that this is correct?

An alternative path description could be ``C:\Users\<user>\AppData\com.concordium.guardian.<network>.<contract-index>.<contract-subindex>``

MacOS
-----

Uninstall the app as you uninstall all apps on MacOS.

> Delete the file XXXX to remove all guardian keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Delete the folder ``~/Library/Application Support/com.concordium.guardian.<network>.<contract-index>.<contract-subindex>`` to remove all guardian keys.
```

I don't know if everyone will know that `~` equals the `$HOME` or `/Users/<username>` path though?

Linux
-----

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

On linux, the application data is stored in one of two places depending on your system:

- ``$XDG_DATA_HOME/com.concordium.guardian.<network>.<contract-index>.<contract-subindex>``
- ``$HOME/.local/share/com.concordium.guardian.<network>.<contract-index>.<contract-subindex>``

Delete this folder to remove all guardian keys.
```
